# llm-open-ended-evaluation

This repository contains the **bachelor's thesis** by **Lucija Runjić** titled:  
**"Korištenje velikih jezičnih modela u ocjenjivanju zadataka otvorenog tipa"**  
(English: *Using Large Language Models in Evaluating Open-Ended Assignments*)  
Submitted as part of the undergraduate program in Computing at the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb.

---

## Abstract (EN)

The purpose of this work is to determine the quality of large language models in evaluating open-ended assignments. More specifically, we are using ChatGPT and Bard. This paper describes characteristics of large language models in detail, along with various statistical measures used for analysis, such as sum of squares or coefficient of determination. Furthermore, the dataset used for the analysis is presented along with the process of acquiring and extracting all the relevant data from it. Technologies and other tools used in the implementation are also described. The paper provides interpretation of the results of the analysis of the given dataset acquired through the grades and feedback generated by large language models. A measure for evaluating the grading ability of these models is proposed, including an implementation of a scoring algorithm based on a calibration test.

---

## Sažetak (HR)

U ovom radu istražuje se primjena velikih jezičnih modela u ocjenjivanju zadataka otvorenog tipa. Konkretno, korišteni su modeli ChatGPT i Bard. Rad opisuje karakteristike velikih jezičnih modela te statističke mjere korištene za analizu, uključujući sumu kvadrata i koeficijent determinacije. Nadalje, prikazan je podatkovni skup korišten u istraživanju, s postupkom prikupljanja relevantnih podataka. Opisane su korištene tehnologije i alati koji su omogućili provedbu analize. Rad također nudi interpretaciju rezultata dobivenih analizom ocjenjivanja i povratnih informacija generiranih od strane velikih jezičnih modela. Uz to, predložena je mjera za ocjenjivanje sposobnosti vrednovanja zadataka ovog tipa, kao i implementacija algoritma za dodjeljivanje bodova temeljenih na kalibracijskom testu.

---

## Author & Mentor

- **Student:** Lucija Runjić  
- **Mentor:** prof. dr. sc. Ljiljana Brkić  

---
